[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
There is a reason
that Eastern medicine has
found a place in the West.
Western diagnostic
techniques are simply not
adequate when trying to
decipher the source of most
chronic illness.
If you can't find
the source, you
don't know what you're treating.
And thus, you're stuck
with throwing palliatives
at the problem.
David Scrimgeour was on
his way to medical school
when his life took
an abrupt turn,
literally-- he
ended up in Taiwan,
where he was exposed
to acupuncture
and other Asian medical
modalities, which changed
the direction of his life.
He joins us today to speak about
the complexities of diagnosis,
adrenal burnout, and other
challenges to Western medicine.
I'm so glad you
could join us here.
These are problems that
pretty much everybody,
either if they don't have
some adrenal burnout issues,
misdiagnoses, chronic
illness anymore,
then they're probably not
living and breathing or over
40 years old.
>>DAVID SCRIMGEOUR: Pretty much.
>>REGINA: I mean, you can
die from adrenal burnout,
so it's an important topic.
Launch into it because you
have a lot to say about it.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: I do have a lot
to say about it, and part of it
is because I've seen so
much of it over the years
and I think I have felt it in
my own ways, as so many of us
have, and it prompted
me to figure out
what's going on here.
Chinese medicine, of course,
is a great reference for it,
even though we don't
call it by the same name.
We call it kidney deficiency
in Chinese medicine.
They've mapped this out
a long, long time ago
and said, well,
here's what happens.
If you really get overburdened--
and they use this term "yali,"
which means pressure
in Chinese--
if you get overburdened
by different things,
and they really listed it-- they
talk about the seven emotions,
any kind of excess they say will
really create this imbalance
in the system which leads to
this concept of deficiency.
So one of the big differences
in terms of, I would say,
Western thinking in
terms of medicine
and Eastern thinking
in terms of medicines
is this whole concept
of deficiency,
which is lacking in something.
Because we could look at that
and think, well, it's cortisol.
Or we can look at
that and think it's
some disease, some
genetic-type situation where
there's a true deficiency, or
we could think thyroid hormone.
But we're not talking
about that necessarily.
Again, we talked earlier
about this balance thing,
where when you get out of
balance, what starts happening,
or you just get,
let's say, rundown
in the early phases of this.
But then as that progresses,
as you sort of ignore that--
I think one of the
biggest issues for people
is kind of what you
were just saying,
it's ignoring what's
actually happening.
So we think that the world we
live in, it's just all fine,
and we're the problem.
It's not the world, but we
just have to adapt to it.
So we basically
have to speed up.
I mean, a good example
of this is ADD in kids.
Well, when I grew up, I
never heard of ADD in kids.
It was like some kids got
it, and some kids didn't.
>>REGINA: Well, and
some kids, you just said
they had ants in their pants.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Or something.
>>REGINA: Right, that was it.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: But it
was never like now.
Now you have a
disease, and you have
to be medicated for it, which
is not even to sedate you,
which is the most
shocking thing of all.
It's to speed you up.
>>REGINA: I know.
It's speed.
The stuff is speed.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Ritalin.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Literally.
So in Chinese
medicine, we actually
treat that differently.
We actually calm things
down to treat that,
and it works just as well.
It's just that things are
kind of out of rhythm,
and so things aren't
functioning right.
You can either speed it up,
or you can slow it down.
>>REGINA: Well now,
when someone says--
we're going to
continue on that track,
but you're spurring a
question in my mind.
If they're giving
speed, essentially--
you know methamphetamine
or speed--
to people with ADD in
the form of Ritalin,
is it in a sense,
like cures like?
I mean, how can giving
a hyperactive child--
how does that respond
to something that is--
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Well, over time,
it doesn't respond well at all.
It creates a different
type of burnout
is really the thing because
you're speeding it up,
and that's exactly
what I'm saying.
That's the whole issue with
any of these types of things.
And again, it's how do you
want to look at things?
How do you want to look at
what's the root of the problem?
Is the problem the
kid who can't keep up?
Or is the problem what he's
trying to keep up with,
which is completely-- who knows?
What have we created in
terms of what it is that--
>>REGINA: Oh, don't get me
going on our educational system.
Of course these
kids can't keep up.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: And part
of me, I almost want
to jump ahead, because if
you don't, you can't really
answer the question, which is,
what's the purpose of life?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: And honestly, I
know that sounds like-- ugh.
In Western medicine, it's kind
of like, we don't go there.
But it's like, that's the
problem because you've
got to know what
the purpose of life
is, and here you are
dealing with life,
in a sense trying
to solve problems,
trying to cure something,
trying to bring people back
to this homeostasis, trying to
bring people back for as long
as they can live--
as long as they can exist
and breathe, that is--
that we need to
ask that question.
And so to me, that's
essential to the whole thing
because if you don't really
know what am I doing here--
what am I supposed to be doing?
>>REGINA: And so that
is a big problem.
So let's talk about
the typical client that
walks through your door.
I assume your clientele skews
more female, or does it?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Pretty much.
>>REGINA: Pretty much?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Yes
and no, but yeah.
>>REGINA: On the adrenal
burnout question,
what is the typical profile
that walks through the door.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: OK, I had a
woman come in the other day,
and she said, I have
adrenal burnout.
I said, well, how do you know
you have adrenal burnout, first
of all, because she
had been tested for it.
And she said, I've had
this many times, which
I start thinking, many times?
>>REGINA: Many times?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: You know, probably
it never really got fixed.
In a sense, you've never
really cured that issue.
And she started telling
me the whole thing.
I think she has, I don't
know, one kid or two kids.
She's a mother.
She doesn't really have to
work, although she had this job,
and she really got into it.
And she would tell
me, well, then I just
started pushing and pushing
and pushing and pushing
and pushing, and I can't stop.
And I really get into it,
and I really wire myself up
thinking I need to
do all these things,
to accomplish all these things--
never stopping to ask,
well, you know, why?
And the reason
that people come in
for, it's not usually-- they
don't label it themselves,
adrenal burnout.
They label it insomnia.
>>REGINA: Oh, yes, insomnia
but also exhaustion.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Well, exhaustion,
but they go together.
But the insomnia is not--
again, there's stages of
how all this stuff develops,
like all these other
things, as they worsen.
But one of the worst stages
is when people can't sleep.
>>REGINA: Talk about the
four stages, just briefly
so we know how to recognize it.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: The early stage
is typically people just
don't-- it's all
about adaptation.
So if you go back to the real
early one, the initial book,
this guy Hans Selye, a
doctor from Eastern Europe,
it was actually in the '30s.
The book was actually
written in, I think, 1956.
It was called "The
Stress of Life."
And he kind of outlines
this whole thing
of what he examined--
most in mice and rats--
but it was this whole idea
of here's what happens.
If you subject an
animal to stress,
here's what will happen.
So there will be a
little bit of a breakdown
in the system initially,
and they'll get sick a lot.
Like if there are things
around, their immune system
doesn't work.
They get a little bit tired.
You're just malfunctioning
a little bit.
It's not too bad.
Second phase, they
actually start
to adapt even
better because it's
like there's something
in the system that goes,
aha, we can figure this out.
Now we know what to do.
But what it does, it
starts putting out
things like hormones-- certain
types of hormones, usually
cortisol, norepinephrine,
and other types of things
that really, in a sense,
keep the system going.
So there's a little
bit of an adaptation.
There's a little
bit of a trade-off,
but you don't notice it so much.
So then everything will
kind of come back to almost
what looks like normal.
>>REGINA: If you were
paying attention,
what would that
trade-off look like?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: I think
the trade-off would
be that you start to
notice that you're actually
getting a little bit
wired, and that's
what I've seen with people.
Here's the beauty of
using Chinese medicine,
you can feel it in the pulse.
It's what we call wiry pulse.
And it's like, huh,
you feel really good,
but your pulse says that
you're actually kind of--
you're wired up.
It's not good.
You're out of balance.
You don't really feel healthy.
Other little things
will be digestion.
This comes up all the time.
Oh, I got a little bit of stuff.
Maybe I have a little
bit of acid reflux.
Well, why do you
have acid reflux?
I mean, sure, diet.
But just in terms
of intrinsically,
what's going on with
this acid thing,
this thing that's in a sense--
>>REGINA: This is huge.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: --it's
a heat element.
>>REGINA: I see people
at Costco taking home
these monstrous
containers of Tums.
And I'm thinking, god, you're
going to eat all of those?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: That stuff's
not that hard to cure.
But again, that's
still an early phase.
There's an adaptation,
and maybe you're
still going to have
some of these symptoms,
but they're fairly mild.
As you start getting into,
let's say, phase three,
then you start to notice
these sleep disturbances.
And these are not good.
So maybe even in
phase two, we'll
start to have difficulty
falling asleep.
What is it that's affecting you?
Well, it's usually performance.
It's usually some
kind of anxiety
about I need to do more.
I need to do better.
It's my job.
It's usually my job.
It's job and money
are the big things.
I mean, those are the
ones that get everybody.
>>REGINA: In a down economy,
of course, it is epidemic.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Oh,
yeah, it's even more.
And relationship stuff, more
for women than men, I think.
But it's just these things,
and then, so again, people
are lying there, and
they can't fall asleep.
Eventually, they fall asleep.
>>REGINA: That's stage three?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: That's kind of--
we're going from two to three.
In three, what starts
to happen now is really
you're not doing so well.
You're not adapting very well.
Now what's happening
is you don't sleep.
You fall asleep because
you're so exhausted
because you're doing this
[MIMICS WHEELS SPINNING]----
you're doing this whole
adaptation response to all
the stresses that
are coming at you.
And you're trying to catch up.
You're trying to stay
up with all that stuff,
but you can't really.
And again, I have to
emphasize this whole point.
Is it you?
Or is it the situation?
Do you know what I mean?
Is it the crazy world that
we live in, god forbid?
Or is it you that you
just can't keep up?
Do you know what I mean?
And the reason that that's
important is because then we
dump all the other
psycho-emotional stuff back
on ourselves--
I can't keep up.
>>REGINA: And we start
beating ourselves up.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: I can't keep up.
I can't do this.
>>REGINA: I'm going
to miss the train.
Someone else is going to
get that job instead of me
or whatnot.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: And you start
to feel this thing, uh-oh,
and that whole fight--
>>REGINA: Now you're in fear.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: --or flight thing.
Fear really starts to kick
in, but it's still subtle,
and you don't want to admit it.
>>REGINA: And you don't have
the energy to even deal with it.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Right.
The biggest thing is you
don't want to be aware of it
because it's like, well,
that means I'm weak.
This is another beautiful
thing about Chinese medicine
that I love is its
connection to nature.
It doesn't judge.
It just says, look, if you're
out of touch with nature,
you're out of touch with nature.
It can't help you.
It says, well, the
river goes this way.
You want to go over here.
The river goes this way.
If you want the river to
take you, get in the river.
It will take you this way,
but you want to go that way.
And it's like, I don't know
what to tell you-- you know,
I want to speed it up.
>>REGINA: So this
is where you try
to just force your way through
whatever the situation is.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Absolutely.
This is the push and pull.
>>REGINA: Even when you
don't have the resources.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Yes, and
that's where it all
starts to fail because now,
when you get to this point of I
can't sleep, people go crazy.
I mean, what do you
think the number
one medication is that people--
I think there were--
>>REGINA: Sleeping aids.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: --last year,
60 million prescriptions
were filled for sleeping pills,
pharmaceutical sleeping pills.
[WINCES] So what's
happening here?
This is epidemic.
I mean, that's 60
million that just
went and got the medication.
You don't know about all the
other people that are going,
I don't need the medication.
>>REGINA: Well, you don't
know about the people who
are self-medicating too and
taking over-the-counter stuff.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Benadryl.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Or just
not dealing with it.
Or just getting depressed and
anxious and everything else,
which are also the
other big things
that people get treated for.
So it creates this
whole situation
that is really difficult
to solve because you're not
solving the root of
the problem, and it
gets worse and worse and worse.
And the whole thing is--
I mean, there's a
stage four in a sense,
but it's really what
we would call you're
knocking on death's door.
But most people
don't really go there
because something happens.
But here's the
thing that I think
is so important that
people don't understand,
and Western medicine doesn't
help in the situation
because there's no concept
of how to restore balance
to the system, there's
no concept at all
of how to strengthen
this system,
and there's really no
understanding of how
to take someone back-- back
to this thing of balance.
You know, way down
the line here,
you're way out of balance.
How do we bring you back?
Well, what happens
is a lot of people,
now the genetics kick in.
So let's say you have
autoimmune disease,
and now your, in a sense,
resistance defenses are down.
Your core has become weak.
Now the genetics kick in--
bang.
And that's what happens.
Some of it is--
in other words,
you can look at it.
It's not all random.
You could say, well,
yeah, genetically
you were predisposed.
Yeah, but if everything
was working fine,
you may not get this.
You may not manifest--
the DNA may not
manifest in that.
>>REGINA: Well,
Bruce Lipton's work--
I mean, certainly we
can point to that.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And I tell people this all
the time, yes, it can change.
If you do the right
things, you can change it.
So again, we get to
this point where now we
start manifesting
chronic illness, whatever
your genetics are.
It can be cancer.
It can be autoimmune disease.
It's bad stuff.
And people think, yeah, but
what's the cure for cancer?
It's like, wear a pink
ribbon, get lots of money,
and throw money at
research for drugs.
I mean, that's treatment.
That's not cure.
That's not the cure for cancer.
Because to me, it's how can you
prevent that from happening?
How can you, in a sense,
turn off these influences
that we've all bought into?
It's a big, big,
big, big question.
So to me, it's much deeper
than adrenal burnout,
and that a lot of people
are suffering from it,
and I'm very, very happy that I
feel like Chinese medicine can
help with that, and I love
helping people with that.
But just to understand,
this is deep stuff, guys.
This is not some little, tiny
thing that just went wrong.
This is something
where it's like, uh-oh.
>>REGINA: And to
get there you have
to have missed every cue
for a long period of time,
pretty much, right?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Well, you
have to override it.
I don't know if you missed it,
but you had to override it.
>>REGINA: OK, that's a
good way of saying it.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: And that's
what I think people do.
And I ask people that.
I say, how did you--
you're sacrificing your life.
For what?
For who?
For a corporation that
chews you up, spits you out,
and doesn't really
care when you're done?
I mean, it's just the way it is.
It's just the way it is.
And it's not just America.
It's all over the place.
But that's a lot of what it is--
for money, fame, for
some other person?
It's like our values, it's
just all whacked out, to me.
And this is what-- but again,
I see how this manifests.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
and your clients,
you have to talk to them about--
>>SCRIMGEOUR:
That's what I mean.
>>REGINA: --these values
to get going, yeah.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Yeah, it's
not a personal thing.
It's just this is
what I observe.
And I ask them, well,
what's the issue?
It's always these things.
Well, I got divorced, so now
I'm not totally stressed out,
and now I don't know
how I'm going to live.
I mean, it's all hooked
in to this whole thing.
And again, even in terms
of just economically,
there are different
ways of doing
that and different systems where
people take care of each other.
We just don't have
a very good system,
I don't feel, in the West and
certainly in this country.
We don't have extended
families anymore.
I mean, there are just a lot of
systems that we don't have that
were there-- community support
systems that we don't have--
and they're really,
really important.
>>REGINA: So that
has to be number one.
When you're looking at
starting to recover a person,
or find this the state of
homeostasis or balance again,
wouldn't having
communal support--
>>SCRIMGEOUR: It
would be really good.
>>REGINA: --really
be intrinsic to it?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: I don't
know if it would be first.
It would be if we
could get them there.
>>REGINA: Just to have
a good friend there
for you or a family member.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, let's
talk about how one can
start rebuilding that balance.
If you've, say, gotten
to stage three of this,
where you're not sleeping--
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Which is
the most common, yeah.
>>REGINA: --very common.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Those are most
of the people that I see.
>>REGINA: Right, before
it manifests in really
life-threatening diseases.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: They have
to feel really bad usually
before they show up, which means
they're not sleeping anymore,
and their digestion
is usually off,
and for women, the
hormones are really off.
For men it can be too,
but for women, it's
usually the hormones are
off, and so nothing works.
And there are all these
psycho-emotional things
that go with it.
There's almost always some level
of anxiety and/or depression,
almost always, that
goes with all of that.
So how do we fix it,
is really the question.
So people come in, and it's
like, OK, I just try to talk.
First, how'd you get here?
And what do you think you
can do to change that?
It's not like everyone can
go and quit their jobs,
but some people need to, or
they need to change it in a way
that they feel they
are not completely
succumbing to forces around them
that they have no control over.
So that's the whole issue in
terms of what stress really
is, and that's what it is.
If you feel you have some
control over your environment,
over what's
happening to you, you
can make a lot of these
changes on your own.
So the lifestyle
thing is part of it.
I have to encourage people,
inspire people, motivate
people, understand
people in that way
to sort of bring them out of
that-- usually it's despair.
They don't even see it.
Most people are so freaked out
when they're in this state,
it's just like, help me--
now.
It's dramatic.
It's like a panic attack, but
it's going on all the time.
It's a chronic panic attack.
So I do simple little things.
One of the first things
I do is I will give them
things, like herbs,
that help strengthen
the system because
this is very real,
and you can measure this
in terms of cortisol.
This is deficiency.
Usually, there is an imbalance
and a deficiency of cortisol,
meaning the whole
circadian rhythm is
completely out of balance.
Instead of going high in the
morning and low at night,
which is nice and normal-- it's
just like the sun comes out
and the--
it's not like that.
Usually, it's like
this, or it will
be high at night,
which is usually
the thing with the sleep thing
because the cortisol is going,
I have to stay awake
because I don't
know what's going to happen
to me, and if I fall asleep,
I'll never wake up,
and I'm going to die,
and something's going to
happen, and I won't be awake.
So you stay awake.
You can't blame it, the body.
It's just trying to respond.
>>REGINA: It's in panic.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: It's
trying to survive.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly,
it's trying to survive.
So what kind of herbs
are you looking at?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Oh, I
give people most-- these
are like the adaptogenic herbs.
We don't call them that
in Chinese medicine.
We call them the
tonifying herbs.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about adaptogens.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: The
biggest one is ginseng.
We use astragalus.
>>REGINA: OK, I want
to say something.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Yeah?
>>REGINA: Right now, if
someone's listening to this,
they'll think, but
ginseng's an upper.
Why would you give
someone ginseng?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: No,
it's not an upper.
It's really, really
misunderstood.
>>REGINA: Right, I
know it is, and that's
why I want you to talk about it.
>>SCRIMGEOUR:
Ginseng-- and again, we
don't use this term adaptogen,
but even earlier today, I
was looking at this book.
I was looking at ginseng,
and I was like, OK,
what does it say clinically
that they do with ginseng?
Well they'll use it when
people are really fatigued
and burned-- all these things
that we're talking about is
sort of a classic
example of it--
but they also use it
to help moderate things
like palpitations and
high blood pressure.
It's just a funny thing.
So in this case, for certain
people, in other words,
if your blood pressure
is really low,
it will actually
help to bring it up.
I don't see that it typically
brings up somebody's blood
who already has
high blood pressure.
The whole thing is
that it wants to--
>>REGINA: Find equilibrium.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Exactly.
>>REGINA: That's why it's
called an "adapt-o-gen," right?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Absolutely,
but with the underlying
energetic of it that
it's strengthening.
Because again, if this adrenal--
if our core is weak, we need
something to strengthen it.
There is no concept
in Western medicine
of strengthening anything.
It's not just giving you
cortisol or giving you
some form of cortisone, really.
It's really something
else because we're talking
about something different.
This person has the
ability to do this,
to produce this cortisol,
but it's not happening
because they've used it up.
So they've burned it out.
So the term, it's
accurate in that sense.
You've actually literally,
spun those wheels so much,
created so much friction--
>>REGINA MEREDITH: So now you're
introducing the adaptogens,
ginseng--
what else?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Astragalus
is a wonderful one.
>>REGINA: So that's where
the astragalus comes in, OK.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Astragalus
is really cool.
In fact, I'm using it now in
this concentration of 50 to 1
because there's a
lot of research done
on astragalus and telomeres.
Telomeres is a whole other
thing about anti-aging.
And so the idea is this.
If the telomeres, as we age--
not even as we
age, but as we get
influenced by a number
of different things--
they shorten.
We don't want that.
So if they're not replicating,
then basically we're
getting older faster.
So it's called the--
>>REGINA: Cellular deaths.
>>SCRIMGEOUR:
Exactly, senescence
or the death of the cell.
So the whole idea is that we can
stimulate that to happen again.
So the research that was done--
actually by one of my mentors,
people that he works with--
on astragalus because
they were looking
for a particular aspect of
astragalus that would do that,
they found that it did that.
It will get the
telomeres growing again
in certain concentrations.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: It's fascinating--
>>REGINA: I didn't know
that about astragalus.
>>SCRIMGEOUR:
--really fascinating.
>>REGINA: Fabulous.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: So that's
part of the reason
that in Chinese medicine,
when you look back
at why did they think
this stuff is so cool?
And then now we can apply
these sort of modern ways
of analyzing and go, whoa.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Oh, that's very cool.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Yeah, some of this
anti-aging stuff is for real.
And if we're talking about
turning on telomeres--
and again, some of the fear was,
well, would you create cancer?
But it doesn't do that.
A lot of these herbal
things, they don't do that.
It's like food.
If it's a good, whole
food, it doesn't do that.
You don't get
these side effects.
>>REGINA: OK, so we have
ginseng and astragalus.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Ginseng and
astragalus, Reishi, which is--
>>REGINA: Reishi mushroom.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: --really
well known in Asia.
Reishi comes from
Japan and China.
We use that as well.
And there's a lot of emphasis
on that in terms of cancer
because it stimulates-- if you
really get into the research
on these things,
which some people--
it's all in PubMed.
It's all over the
place now because it's
become very popular in terms
of looking for alternatives,
mostly for things like cancer.
But how can you actually
stimulate the immune system
to respond to these things
that are overwhelming it?
And again, the question
is, what are those things
because some of them
are just stress,
but there are different
types of stresses,
whether they're environmental.
Toxicity is a huge issue.
>>REGINA: Right,
huge issue, yeah.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: But
we want to deal
with things that actually
bring our defense system up
against that.
So Reishi is one
of those things.
And each one of them has
very different properties
in terms of how they
affect immune system
through the thymus, through the
T cells, through the B cells.
I mean, it's pretty
incredible stuff.
It'll stimulate
certain cytokines
to have certain reactions
against certain pathogens
that are coming in.
So those are some of
the things we use.
Some of the other ones--
those are the big ones.
I would say, ginseng,
astragalus, Reishi.
Cordyceps is a really old one,
which is kind of a strange one.
It's actually a larva.
We call it [CHINESE] in Chinese,
which means "winter worm summer
grass," because it's actually
this kind of larva that
grows in the spring.
Anyway, there are all
these strange things in--
>>REGINA: It's ground up larva.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Yeah, pretty much.
>>REGINA: OK, gotcha.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: All right, cordyceps.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: We use these
things in Chinese medicine
that they didn't
care what it is.
They just care what
the effect was.
And so that's one that we use.
There are a number of
other ones that we put--
even licorice is actually--
>>REGINA: So are
there compounds that
are made that people can use
for restoring the adrenals?
I mean, I've seen a lot of--
>>SCRIMGEOUR: There
are a number of things.
>>REGINA: --adrenal
support things,
even in the health food store.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Oh,
there are a lot
of things that are out there.
A lot of it is the potency.
>>REGINA: But we want to be
looking for these things?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Those
types of things.
The potencies are
really, really important
in terms of people accessing
that kind of stuff.
Usually, you're
going to do better
going to someone who's a
practitioner because they're
going to have a lot more
experience with that stuff.
I mean, I recently made
a formula for my patients
and for me because
I wanted to combine
all those things in there and
have a real high concentration
of the astragalus.
I wanted to put the
cordyceps in there.
I wanted to put all these
things in there that I
think are things that really--
I put Schisandra in there.
I put the Lycium,
which is like--
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah,
which helps us sleep.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Yeah,
the goji berries.
There's a little story
in China, the guy who
lived to be 212 eating
nothing but goji berries.
You know, there's
stuff like this,
but the anti-aging aspect of it.
So you want a very
balanced formula,
but you want these
things to be strong.
You want them to
really do something.
There's another
great herb called
Rehmannia, which is
not often used in terms
of these classic forms.
It's a little hard to digest.
It's really thick.
But in terms of, we would say,
kidney deficiency classically
in Chinese medicine, it's a
really, really common herb.
>>REGINA: Well, let
me ask you about that.
You were talking about how
it's called kidney deficiency.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Yes.
>>REGINA: Right?
Now, the adrenals sit
on top of the kidneys.
Is there a relationship that--
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So really, we are
talking about adrenal burnout,
but what's happening
with the kidneys
that they're sitting on top
of that would maybe even be
a precursor?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Well, the thing
is you can't necessarily
make an exact
correlation between what
we call kidney deficiency
in Chinese medicine,
or even adrenal burnout,
and kidney organ
function in Western anatomical
physiological medicine
because it's different.
In other words, it doesn't
mean you actually have a kidney
problem at all, necessarily.
So what we assign to
this kidney deficiency
is really more of an
energetic, symptomatic way
of looking at that, of
measuring what that is.
So for example, people
might have back pain.
They might have knee pain.
They might have tooth problems.
>>REGINA: Oh, lower back pain
is like almost endemic to--
>>SCRIMGEOUR: It's
endemic, absolutely--
ear problems, with hearing
things, tinnitus, you know,
hear loss.
All these things we relate
to kidney, but also things
like willpower we
relate to kidney,
which is another one
that people experience
when they're burnt out.
>>REGINA: Well now,
see this is a big one--
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Lack of.
>>REGINA: --lack of willpower.
Interesting.
So really, it's the
whole person and spirit
that we're looking at here.
And then, I want to
get to this subject
because people will
have to read books.
They'll have to find you.
But we have so much
more we can talk about,
and we only have about
five minutes left.
So now someone has taken it on.
They're going to embrace some of
the healing forms of exercise,
such as yoga.
And I ask you this for
a reason because yoga,
when I started doing
yoga about 30 years ago,
it was just people in
T-shirts and Hatha yoga,
and it was rather gentle.
Now I'm terrified to go
into most yoga classes--
I mean, just on a
performance level
alone and the amount of stress.
And if you go into Bikram,
the amount of heat.
And I see a lot of people, women
in particular, that have now
embraced the yogic lifestyle,
that are rail thin,
and they're not appearing to
me to be a whole lot happier
than they were before, although
they were dealing with burnout
issues perhaps and others.
And we're in Boulder.
This is like a yoga capital.
And I love yoga.
It's a beautiful healing
modality and art,
but what happens when they
end up in your office weighing
100 pounds?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Well,
that's a big question,
and that's a lot to take on.
>>REGINA: I'm
seeing a lot of it.
That's why I'm
asking because that's
like you're now burning
out in another direction,
trying to heal yourself.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Part of it
is cultural, the extremes.
If a little bit is good,
a whole lot is better,
and that's kind of where
a lot of that comes from.
So if I'm a little
bit healthy, maybe I
can be extremely healthy,
which leads to an imbalance.
Again, Chinese medicine--
extreme yin turns to yang.
Extreme yang turns to yin.
So this case, extreme
yang, meaning overdoing it,
pushing your body
so far that it turns
to yin in this state, which is
more of the deficient state.
In that respect,
that's what happens.
So if that's what
you're asking--
>>REGINA: So you're
depleting yourself?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Absolutely.
People just overdo it.
It's just like anything.
It's like an eating disorder.
It's like, well, I really
want to be strong and healthy
or something.
>>REGINA: Well,
and we can see how
marathoners-- it's
like, jeez, you're
going to do that, of
course, you're going
to start depleting yourself.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: So
an ultra marathon
would be even better, right?
>>REGINA: An ultra marathon?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Because
if I can run 100 miles,
then it means something.
We don't know what.
>>REGINA: But then
you think of yoga.
It's so gentle.
How can you do that?
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Yeah,
it's a beautiful thing.
>>REGINA: No, you can really
burn out, even on yoga.
And so this whole thing--
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Cultural.
>>REGINA: And then again--
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Hollywood.
>>REGINA: --this gets
us into Hollywood.
It gets us into discussions
about self-worth,
our sexuality, our desirability,
and everything else.
And you know what?
That's a really,
really big topic.
So I would like to just
kind of end that at that
for the moment.
At another time, I would love
for you to come back and talk
a little bit more about
those kinds of cycles
because you really do address
it from the spirit to the cell.
But in the interim, we still
have a couple of minutes left.
So while we're talking
about this adrenal burnout,
we've talked about
some of the herbs.
We've talked about prioritizing
our energy and our time.
Talk a little bit more
about this whole notion
of self-respect in
our own recovery.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: It's
beyond self-respect.
I think it's self-worth.
I think it's knowing yourself.
And if you don't know yourself,
that's the problem, to me.
And for me, I've
spent many, many years
examining that and
looking at that,
doing things like practicing a
particular type of meditation
that I've done for
many, many years
to try to find, what
is that within me?
So if I know what that
is, if I have a reference
point within me that's
very, very clear and strong,
from that--
in a sense, wisdom--
I can apply that out here.
So in terms of looking at all
these issues for other people,
that's also part of the process.
How can I get a person to, in
a sense, become self-aware?
I can't just make them aware.
I have to get them somehow
interested enough in themselves
that they want to really
find out what's at their core
and not to be distracted
away from it by all
these other issues,
where it's like,
if I work myself to death,
maybe then I'll find happiness.
If I do something, whatever it
is, become beautiful or this--
all these extremes that we go
into that we've known forever--
forever-- that they don't
bring you happiness.
They don't bring you health.
In a sense, it's just
they bring you emptiness.
And so it's that
kind of a thing.
If I can help
somebody to rediscover
in the process of
actually becoming
healthy, of nourishing
yourself, because you're right--
if you feel like I don't have
any reason to nourish myself,
I'm not going to do it,
but if you can do that.
So in a sense,
it's like, wake up.
>>REGINA: This is all about
consciousness in the end.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Self-awareness and
consciousness, and that's
the journey that has to really
precede all the rest if we're
truly going to recover.
And David, thank you
so much for your time.
It's gone by just in a snap.
I love your energy.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: My pleasure.
>>REGINA: You don't
appear to be burnt our.
[LAUGHTER]
>>SCRIMGEOUR: I
hope not-- not yet.
>>REGINA: No, you're
a joy to be around,
and I hope to see
you here again.
Thank you.
>>SCRIMGEOUR: Thank you.
>>REGINA: I hope this has
given you some food for thought
in terms of your
own hamster mill.
Prioritizing energy use
is not easy in this world,
but it sounds like that may
be our path to salvation
and happiness once again.
If you'd like to know more
about David's practice,
you can contact him through his
website at davidscrimgeour.com.
Let me spell that for you--
S-C-R-I-M-G-E-O-U-R.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]